README.md, before:

# ASI_Grupa4

## Project Description

This project serves as an advanced exploration into the realm of artificial intelligence, concentrating on the utilization of innovative AI tools. It delves into creating synthetic data to empower machine learning models, harnesses the power of AutoML for automated model selection and optimization, evaluates model performance rigorously, and implements strategies for efficient deployment. The initiative aims to demonstrate cutting-edge techniques in AI research and application, providing a framework for robust AI system development.

## Installation and Setup Instructions

* Clone the repository to your local machine:
```
git clone https://github.com/translator24work/ASI_Grupa4.git
```
* Install conda:
```
https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/install/index.html
```
* Create conda environment:
```
conda create --name kedro-environment python=3.10 -y
conda activate kedro-environment
conda install -c conda-forge kedro
conda install -c conda-forge kedro-viz
conda activate kedro-environment
```
* Install kedro dependencies:
```
cd kedro-asi/
pip install -r src/requirements.txt
```
* Install postgresql on your machine:
```
https://www.postgresql.org/download/
```
* Now we need to define database schema and table. In repository, you can find file named
`init.sql` that will do it.
* After executing this script you can use `dump.sql` that will insert data from csv file into sql table. You need to
replace path inside it (`/path/to/your/file.csv`) with correct path to your local `cwurData.csv`
* Now you need to place in `kedro-asi/conf/local/credentials.yml` (replace `your_username`, `your_password`, `your_database` with your proper postgresql configuration):
```
my_postgres_db:
  type: postgres
  host: localhost
  port: 5432
  username: your_username
  password: your_password
  database: your_database
```
## If you want to deploy pipeline with StreamLit you need to do:
```
cd kedro-asi/
streamlit run streamlit.py
```
## Dataset

The dataset  "World University Rankings" contains comprehensive data on the ranking of global universities. 
It includes various scores reflecting the quality of education and faculty, as well as the institution's international outlook and research influence. 
This dataset can be useful for analyzing trends in higher education, comparing institutions, and understanding the factors that contribute to a university's reputation and academic standing. 
[source: Kaggle][https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/mylesoneill/world-university-rankings/data](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/mylesoneill/world-university-rankings/data)

## Stack

- **SDV**: synthetic data
- **AutoGluon**: training and choosing best model
- **Kedro**: pipeline
- **Weights&Biases**: evaluation
- **Streamlit**: deployment
- **Python**: primary programming language
- **Jupyter Notebook**: interactive computing environment

## Kedro architecture overview

**The ```conf/``` directory, which contains configuration for the project, such as data catalog configuration, parameters, etc.**

**The ```src``` directory, which contains the source code for the project, including:**
- The ```pipelines``` directory, which contains the source code for your pipelines.
- ```settings.py file``` contains the settings for the project, such as library component registration, custom hooks registration, etc. All the available settings are listed and explained in the project settings chapter.
- ```pipeline_registry.py``` file defines the project pipelines, i.e. pipelines that can be run using ```kedro run --pipeline```.
- ```__main__.py``` file serves as the main entry point of the project in package mode.

**```pyproject.toml``` identifies the project root by providing project metadata, including:**
- ```package_name```: A valid Python package name for your project package.
- ```project_name```: A human readable name for your project.
- ```kedro_init_version```: Kedro version with which the project was generated.

![kedro_architecture](https://github.com/translator24work/ASI_Grupa4/assets/77148029/52467e02-388e-48fd-bd45-cb3856d9dcfd)

Commit message:

Remove generic README.md generated by Kedro and add Fast API paragraph into project README.md

README.md, after:

# ASI_Grupa4

## Project Description

This project serves as an advanced exploration into the realm of artificial intelligence, concentrating on the utilization of innovative AI tools. It delves into creating synthetic data to empower machine learning models, harnesses the power of AutoML for automated model selection and optimization, evaluates model performance rigorously, and implements strategies for efficient deployment. The initiative aims to demonstrate cutting-edge techniques in AI research and application, providing a framework for robust AI system development.

## Installation and Setup Instructions

* Clone the repository to your local machine:
```
git clone https://github.com/translator24work/ASI_Grupa4.git
```
* Install conda:
```
https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/install/index.html
```
* Create conda environment:
```
conda create --name kedro-environment python=3.10 -y
conda activate kedro-environment
conda install -c conda-forge kedro
conda install -c conda-forge kedro-viz
conda activate kedro-environment
```
* Install kedro dependencies:
```
cd kedro-asi/
pip install -r src/requirements.txt
```
* Install postgresql on your machine:
```
https://www.postgresql.org/download/
```
* Now we need to define database schema and table. In repository, you can find file named
`init.sql` that will do it.
* After executing this script you can use `dump.sql` that will insert data from csv file into sql table. You need to
replace path inside it (`/path/to/your/file.csv`) with correct path to your local `cwurData.csv`
* Now you need to place in `kedro-asi/conf/local/credentials.yml` (replace `your_username`, `your_password`, `your_database` with your proper postgresql configuration):
```
my_postgres_db:
  type: postgres
  host: localhost
  port: 5432
  username: your_username
  password: your_password
  database: your_database
```
## If you want to deploy pipeline, you need to run:
* Frontend Application `streamlit.py`:
```
cd kedro-asi/
streamlit run streamlit.py
```
* Backend Application `fast_api.py`:
```
cd kedro-asi/
uvicorn fast_api:app
```
### Default url's for applications:
* Frontend application will be available under http://localhost:8501 url
* Backend application will be available under http://127.0.0.1:8000 url
## Dataset

The dataset  "World University Rankings" contains comprehensive data on the ranking of global universities. 
It includes various scores reflecting the quality of education and faculty, as well as the institution's international outlook and research influence. 
This dataset can be useful for analyzing trends in higher education, comparing institutions, and understanding the factors that contribute to a university's reputation and academic standing. 
[source: Kaggle][https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/mylesoneill/world-university-rankings/data](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/mylesoneill/world-university-rankings/data)

## Stack

- **SDV**: synthetic data
- **AutoGluon**: training and choosing best model
- **Kedro**: pipeline
- **Weights&Biases**: evaluation
- **Streamlit**: deployment
- **Python**: primary programming language
- **Jupyter Notebook**: interactive computing environment

## Kedro architecture overview

**The ```conf/``` directory, which contains configuration for the project, such as data catalog configuration, parameters, etc.**

**The ```src``` directory, which contains the source code for the project, including:**
- The ```pipelines``` directory, which contains the source code for your pipelines.
- ```settings.py file``` contains the settings for the project, such as library component registration, custom hooks registration, etc. All the available settings are listed and explained in the project settings chapter.
- ```pipeline_registry.py``` file defines the project pipelines, i.e. pipelines that can be run using ```kedro run --pipeline```.
- ```__main__.py``` file serves as the main entry point of the project in package mode.

**```pyproject.toml``` identifies the project root by providing project metadata, including:**
- ```package_name```: A valid Python package name for your project package.
- ```project_name```: A human readable name for your project.
- ```kedro_init_version```: Kedro version with which the project was generated.

![kedro_architecture](https://github.com/translator24work/ASI_Grupa4/assets/77148029/52467e02-388e-48fd-bd45-cb3856d9dcfd)
